# The Sacrifice

*by Flint Ironforge*

*26th of October, the Year 2054*

## Fangs of Fright
The hooded figure disappears as the cult members move towards the group. Thinking fast Grimwald immediately releases a shattering blot into the group of enemies. The large abomination and the priest seem to shake off the devastation. Seeing Grimwald open with a strong attack Aramil jumps right into the fray slamming his fists into the ground. The two guards in front of the giant snake abomination electrocuting the two guards. One of the guards is sent flying up against the edge of the chamber. Right next to the water’s edge. Flint runs closer to get in range, not able to fully close the gap he tosses a flame at the guard. Tycerian following behind Flint throws two javelins at the guards. The two javelins fly through the air whizzing past the head of the guard straight into the ground.

Feeling the pressure, the giant abomination brings its large face down next to Aramil and Flint. The abomination brandishing its large teeth screams into their faces. Even in their ethereal form this sends both scattering into different directions frightened by the massive creature. In their heads Flint and Tycerian hear the priests whispering suggesting that they walk to the water. After being feared by the abomination Flint succumbs to the words of the priest running into the water. Trying to flee the awful sights and sounds. 

## Its A Trap!
As Flint enters the water, he becomes engulfed in a cloud of poison. Sitting deep in the water Flint feels and hears sounds coming from the east. Grimwald sends a massive attack at the abomination, rallying Aramil and Flint. The cult guard assaulted by Grimwalds previous attacks hears deaths bells. The cultist grabs its head as the crushing sounds of the bell cause it to fall over into deaths embrace.

Brave Tycerian runs headfirst smashing the Abomination with his fiery Warhammer and sword. Noticing the threat, the red dragon presents, the abomination swings its tail around Tycerian. In his rage and flurry of blows, Tycerian he manages to avoid the grasps. While distracted with avoiding the grapple, the abomination drops its massive head, right onto Tycerian partially devouring him, Tycerian can feel the poison as it is released into his veins. Removing the vicious bite on Tycerian, the abomination speaks in tongues. The room starts to shake and rumble. Appearing from the walls stone snake heads appear from the wall. The snake heads have open mouths pointed towards the water below. As the heads settle large amounts of water begins rushing into the room filling the pool below. 

Before the commotion can settle a massive lightning bolt shoots across the room stunning all that witnessed it. The abomination hisses in pain as the bolt went through its torso. The smell of burned flesh fills the air, and Grimwald yells “Kill the abomination, take it down before the room fills with water.” 

## An Abomination
Seeing the new danger and finding resolve in Grimwalds attack, in a blur Aramil is upon the abomination moving so quickly a flurry of punches, kicks and jabs with the staff. Land upon abomination still trying to catch his breath among the smell of his burning flesh. As Aramil lands to the ground a javelin thrown by Flint gets lodged deep in the body of the abomination. Knowing Tycerian is still a threat and weak from its poison attack before. The strong tail begins to wrap around Tycerian’s chain mail armor. Swinging his Warhammer and sword wildly in attempts to get free none are successful. The grip of the giant is far too much for the weakened state Tycerian is in.

The water has raised significantly. Grimwald notices swarms of snakes closing in with the rising waters. After moving to avoid the new threat Grimwald fires another blast into the abomination. The abomination lashes out gnashing its teeth in pain. Seeing an opportunity Aramil takes his staff and shoves it into the mouth of the abomination. Stabbing deep down the abominations throat and swishing it around. Clutched by the abomination Tycerian musters up the strength to breath fire into the face of the abomination. Bothered by the flames the abomination begins flailing around slashing its scimitar at the party in all directions. Flint holds up his shield as the scimitar comes crashing into it. Tycerian still held by the abomination finds himself an easy target. The scimitar bites into Tycerian’s flesh draining the last bits of his strength. His lifeless body begins to slump sliding through the bloody tail onto the ground. 

Without notice Aramil lays down in the middle of battle into the water. As he lays calmly a priest moves up to him. Turning into another one of these large snake abominations. However, this one was smaller than the other bloodied abomination. The priest abomination wraps its body around the defenseless Aramil bites down on his soft flesh. The poison fills Aramils veins, helplessly Aramil lays there to the will of the priests.

## Revenge Is A Spell Best Served Cold
Seeing the downed Tycerian, weak Flint, and groveling Aramil. Grimwald points his staff at the large abomination. From across the chamber a booming “Abra-ka-FUCK-YOU” is heard. A blast of ice shards nails the head of the abomination, that is just above the ever-rising water levels. The abomination takes its last gasps of air as it slips into the water in a pool of ice and blood. 
Noticing the spell, he was under Aramil breaks from the grasp of the priest abomination and attempts to swims away towards the group to safety. Through the chaos Grimwald yells “Flint Save Tycerian!”. Lowering his shield Flint runs over and places his hands into the water grabbing Tycerian through the bloodied water. Flint chants a healing prayer calling on Gond bringing Tycerian back. Flint helps Tycerian up pulling him up and out of the pool of snake guts. 

The party now stands in waist deep water and the air still smells of burned flesh. The cult guards shattered bodies, the giant abomination chunks float amongst the waist deep water. Covered in blood and snake parts the party readies themselves to finish of the remaining priests all while wading through bloody water and swarms of poisonous snakes. The room is still light by the braziers although they are covered in the muck.

Tycerian immediately runs over to the nearest priest still in its original form refreshed by the words of Gond. Wielding his massive hammer and sword in his hands, Tycerian stands face to face with the priest. In what looked like one swing Tycerian crushed the hammer down onto the priest and slashed it upon its chest. Tycerian stands tall as the priest waivers under the massive damage done by the flurry of Warhammer and sword blows. In a last-ditch effort, the priest transforms into another abomination to deal with Tycerian.

On the other side of the platform, the other priest turns its gaze back onto its prey. Aramil trying to get away from the priest slips. The fangs of the snake sink into the soft body of the tired elf. As the poison flows through Aramil veins he slowly starts to lose grip and falls into the cold bloody water.

## Rising Tides
Out of the chaos Grimwald notices a swarm of snakes heading for the tired Flint. Grimwald tosses a small rock at them and taunts the swarm of snakes. They stop dead in their tracks startled by the commotion. Taking the opportunity, the exhausted Flint runs to the priest standing over the fallen Aramil. He grasps the body of the priest and with his last remaining might he let his necrotic powerful inflict wounds on the priest. As the necrotic rot slowly took over the priest, it begins to crumble, and chunks of flesh break off into the water. The priest still stood with what remaining strength it could muster. 

The water is now so high that nobody can touch the platform that previously was holding them all up. By this time Grimwald and Flint are surrounded by swarms of snakes. Still face to face with the priest and oblivious to his fallen comrade Tycerian swings wildly under water. One of the sword swings catches the gut of the priest. The water fills with a dark red as the priest falls backward into the water. Tycerian pulls his sword from the gut of the abomination as it slowly falls to the platform below. 

The priest standing over Aramil spays poison wildly into the face of Tycerian and Flint out of desperation. Tycerian manages to cover his eyes in time avoiding the poison. Flint struggling to deal with the swarm of snakes gets poison in his eyes. Grimwald, swarmed by snakes, manages casts a bolt of lightning towards the transformed priest. The lightning catches the priest who then falls limp dropping into the water, the shock was powerful enough that Flint and Tycerian still feel a small shock being so close in the water next to the now dead priest. Taking the opportunity now that all that left is swarms of snakes, Flint moves over and saves Aramil from the grasps of death. 

With all the cult members dead the party had to deal with swarm upon swarm of snakes swimming up to them. Slowly one by one the party managed to dispatch all the snakes. The exhausted group struggles to finish off the swarm but manages to kill every last one. 

## Awake
After the last enemy falls, a bright white light appears, and everyone hears a cackling laugh. Everyone regains consciousness and awakens. Groggy and unsure of exactly what happened.  Right in front of the temple of Erdegal. There seems to be a bag sitting at the base of the structure. 

Flint walks up and sees that there are no gates and no guardians. There is also no humming that was previously there. Saerumir is still unconscious but still breathing. Opens the bag, and inside the bag there is a container holding this white cream and a quarter staff hanging out of the bag. The staff is made of wood but is engraved, at the head it is spherical shape that has a red eye with a black center. It has a dark wood. It is the quarter staff of awareness. Aramil takes the staff. Also, in the bag is a pile of money, and some scrolls. The party is very hungry much more so than when they entered the maze. 

The clearing is very peaceful, very little wildlife. While at camp as the group eats, rests and identifies all their stuff. Saerumir regains consciousness. We feed him and give him rest, he didn’t dream or feel anything. Saerumir feels like the curse is taking its course and there is nothing the party can do to help. feels like he is at deaths door. Saerumir wishes to go back to Wakanga O’tamu in Port Nyanzaru, if we cannot make it go to the Istari tribe west of Bulder’s rest. That is where his tribe is. Aramil and Tycerian goes blind from the mosquitos. The party realizes they have been in the trance for many days not just a few hours that it become. Flint ties a rope to them, and they move on their way. On the way they notice and two Allosaurus on the way and there was a third on the left that snapped a branch.


----------------------------
Session played on 01/25/2020
