# Bump in the Night

*by Ekeziel Vandervel*

*14th of October, the Year 2054*

## A Greater Threat
Puzzled by the encounter with the Ytepka Society, the group initially makes its way to the port, feeling they should comply with the order. However, a few hours into the march, Aramil tells the party he has decided against it, citing their greater purpose to end the curse and find his people's lost artifact. They decide to continue with their plan to get to the Heart of Ubtao, which floats above the Aldani Basin. However, they don't have a means to get there, until Saerumir suggests they attempt to make friends with an aaracockra tribe at Kir Sabal, a mountain to the south. They agree and begin their journey. 

## Travelling Troupe
Along the way, they encounter what seems to be a wandering troupe, who attack the party after a string of insults against the bard. The combat is ended shortly thereafter, after the bard is knocked unconscious, and the adventurers show a willingness to stop. Grisdal, the group's leader, tells his men to stand down, while the Flint stabilizes the dying bard. The troupe claims to be protectors of the city Mezro. The two parties take separate paths shortly after, as the adventurers continue on their path to Kir Sabal. 

## A God Awakened
On the way to Kir Sabal they encounter a shrine with a puzzle on a raised platform. The timed puzzle is completed by Grimwald, which blinds the party, whereupon they open their eyes to find themselves in a different place, in an ethereal form. They witness four snakes lift a body and throw it into a bowl shaped indentation in the ground, slit its throat, shouting a sentence in an unknown language, partially understood by Tycerian and Flint to include the words "sacrifice", "chains" and "Dendar". Grimwald recognizes Dendar as the Night Serpent, an evil god who was banished by Ubtao into the depths below Chult.

## A Queen Needs A King
After this encounter, they press on. They eventually come upon a lone mountain, Kir Sabal. Spotting signs of civilization embedded in the mountain top itself, they make their way up a path carved into its slopes. There, they meet one of the aaracockra, who calls himself Sirdin. They explain their cause, to rid a necromancer from the Heart of Ubtao. Sirdin allows them to enter, leading the party to Princess Mwaxanare, who claims to be the last surviving heir to the lost city Omu. They have a conversation regarding their plans, and the princess agrees to assist the party in getting to the Heart of Ubtao. In order to do so, however, they need to perform a ritual which requires a rare plant - a Black Lotus, which they know to grow in the garden of Nangalore. Princess Mwaxanare meets Grimwald during the night. She mentions her hope that the party will clear Omu and kill Ris Nsi so that she may take her rightful throne, and that a "Queen needs a King".

The party awakens and has another discussion with Asharra, Mwaxanare's protector, and Mwaxanare herself. They ask questions of Chult's past, and give answers, some of which contradict their understanding. Asharra seems defensive in correcting the party's misunderstandings of Chultan history, casting Ris Nsi, Mezroans and others as "pretenders", seeing an elevation of the role of Mezro in Chult's history as an attack on importance of Omu's throne, which Mwaxanare's claims to be the heir of. They also combat the notion that Ris Nsi was a ruler himself - contradicting the party's understanding gained from Nany Pu'pu - instead casting him simply as a necromancer who attacked Mezro, and who needs to be killed at all costs. 

They also downplay Mezro's importance to Chult, saying Mezroans falsely see themselves as favored by Ubtao, while cloaking their city in invisibility to keep outsiders out, hiding from dangers the rest of Chult must face. They bitterly recall Mezro was not around when Omu slowly fell to the undead and other creatures that ravaged the city after its disappearance. 

After this discussion, they get going on their journey to Nangalore, to retrieve a Black Lotus. After a day's journey, they come upon what looks like a giant hedge maze on a raised piece of earth. The maze seems to emit a low pitch humming noise. As they approach the gates to the maze, their bodies fall limp behind them. They appear to be in a similar ethereal form as they were during the vision at the shrine a few days prior.

## The Maze Of Erdegal
At the gates of the maze stands the figure of William Stefford, baron of Wavecrest, in a similar ethereal form. He greets them to this place called Erdegal and asks if they'd be willing to go through the gates and complete the maze. He warns them of the dangers inside but notes that their bodies will suffer no permanent harm. The figure says he is a spirit, and Erdegal houses the thoughts and memories of those who previously traversed it, and they will encounter some of those in a similar spiritual form. Specifically, he warns of one you can trust, and one you cannot, one destined to rule, and one destined to destroy. He advises the party to walk the maze as Ubtao would walk it. 

To leave the maze, the party must find three keys, to unlock the central chamber, which leads to the maze exit. The party enters the maze through the gates. Their first encounter is with a spiritual form of Mwaxanare, who asks if they will take Omu for her. They accept, and she gestures them into a warehouse behind her. There, they find one of the keys that will unlock the way out of the maze, but an attempt to open a chest leads to a combat encounter with a mimic, posing as the chest. They can defeat the mimic, with Aramil taking the brunt of the damage. After taking a moment to heal, they press on.
