Following their encounter with the Medusa Zelkore, the party rests in preparation for their journey back to Kir Sabal. During the night, Aramil and Grimwald once again spot the strange, flying humanoid above them, which appears to wear black robes and glisten in the night, and by now they are almost certain that this creature is following them. Otherwise the night is uneventful, and in the morning Tycerian wakes to find his vision restored. However, the celebration is short-lived. The group marks the absence of their companion and guide Saerumir, who they find to have died in his sleep. Their attempts to revive him are to no avail, and in the end Flint uses a Gentle Repose spell to preserve his body while they carry him back on a makeshift stretcher.
Now without a guide, the party moves through the jungle, Aramil using his survival skills to the best of his ability to lead them back. Along the way they come across a destroyed encampment riddled with mangled bodies and huge humanoid footprints. As they move closer to investigate, they determine that these men were members of the Black Guard, and the footprints - which appear frozen in the ground - could be none other than that of a giant. The party thought it best not to linger for too long, so Flint quickly put together some arrows from the bodies and they pushed on. Before leaving, Flint noticed a piece of bloody parchment sticking out of the pocket of one of the Black Guard, but no one was able to read it.
They reached the base of Kir Sabal at night, but in the interest of safe lodging they chose to push further to reach the village. After sleeping off their exhaustion, they are greeted by the Aarakocra, who clothe them in fine robes and bring them to the Princess. They present to her the black orchid flower they retrieved from Nangalore, but they choose to put off the ritual to have a private meeting, as the princess has things she wants to discuss. During their conversation, Mwaxanare frequently regards Grimwald with smiles, to the confusement of the rest of the party.
She explains that Omu is occupied by various evils, mostly the snake-like Yuan Ti, who sometimes can use magic. They took over about 80 years ago, according to her father. While the Aarakocra take care of the princess, some of them have scouted over Omu periodically and can confirm this, as well as the presence of other beasts, dinosaurs, kobolds, and gargoyles. The princess warns us that it is very dangerous and should not be taken lightly, and that we should prepare heavily before venturing there. However, she asks that if we do go there that we retrieve for her an artifact of her family called the Chalace of Ch'gakwa. This Chalace once stood in the main temple of Omu, and was a relic of one of the gods, created by her family. Past attempts for people to remove treasures from Omu have failed as it is filled with traps, but she asks us to use all means necessary to bring back the Chalace. She says that in addition to its sentimental value, it is prophesized that obtaining this item will prove the city has been freed from its unwelcome occupants. She also tells us we will be granted titles and gold, and may take some other treasures we find on the way.
With this being the first chance the party has had to speak with the Princess outside of the supervision of the Aarakocra, Aramil seizes the opportunity to seek further information. They are able to gather that the princess has never been to Omu herself, and spent much of her youth on the run with her family. Her father and the rest of her family were killed before her eyes by some kind of undead, feathered reptilian creatures, who used magic to engulf them in flames. It was thanks to the Aarakocra flying above that she was able to survive. She is clearly disturbed as she recollects this, and leaves the room shortly after.
Ashara, the Princess' guardian, comes into the room following the princess' departure, looking a little flustered that we had upset her. Aramil doesn't back down, citing the importance of knowing the allies we are working with. He continues to press Ashara, trying to understand why the Aarakocra are so devoted to protecting the princess. Ashara explains that his people are threatened by gargoyles, who have been attacking them with increasing frequency since they started harboring Mwaxanare. It seems that someone is trying to get rid of her, but the Aarakocra hope that with an ally on the throne of Omu that they can further their place in the world and be safer.
Additionally, Ashara is able to help the party decipher the bloody parchment they found on the way to Kir Sabal. It appears to be a bullet-pointed list written in Giant-script, which says the following:
"From Nestari
- A black gem, with a fire burning inside. Omu?
- A sword that glows like the moonlight, made of a strange blue-white material. ??
- A black orb, that disintegrates all it touches. STAY AWAY."
Ashara asks the group if they know anything about the items on this list. Aramil tries to deny it, but is unable to deceive him and decides to tell some of what he knows in exchange for more information. He explains that the stone is an artifact of his people used for defending their homeland, which has resurrective properties and was stolen by a powerful sorcerer. Since the Black Guard seem to believe this gem is in Omu, Ashara agrees that it is likely in Ris Nsi's possession. Aramil also took the chance to ask about Isalawa, the ethereal Mezroan they had met in the maze. Confirming his suspicions, Isalawa once assisted in defending Mezro from an attack from the south, but was banished for unknown reasons soon after. It was after this that Ris Nsi and his army of the undead appeared, which indicates a possible link between Isalawa and Ris Nsi.
Flint also asks about Zalkore, without explaining that she was the medusa they had slain. Ashara tells them that she had been a queen of Omu some 200-300 years prior, and was banished to Nangalore because of some lies that she had been in a love affair with a general - the party of course knows that this was not a lie, but they keep that to themselves. 
They also ask if the Aarakocra had seen the flying being that was following them. They say they started seeing it shortly before we first arrived in Kir Sibal. It appears to wear black robes and a mask, and is wrapped all over in chains but not inhibited by them, and it is too fast for them to intercept, but doesn't appear aggressive - at least not towards them. It doesn't have any discernable wings or anything to let it fly, and just seems to have an innate ability.
After taking a lot of time to have these discussions, and also gaining more information about some of the monsters the Aarakocra had fought, the group decides to rest one more night before doing the ritual.
The next morning, they conduct the ritual, gaining the wings of the Aarakocra, and fly off to the Heart of Ubtao, leaving Saerumir's body in the care of the healers of Kir Sibal. They arrive in a few hours, and descend into a cave inside where they can hear the moans of undead. In front of them they see a female elf who they believe to be the necromancer Valindra. Trying to catch her off guard, Aramil tries to restrain her with magic, but she countered it, already aware of their presence. As she steps forward Aramil tries to magically push her back, but she shrugs it off and puts him into an unconcious state before turning invisible. Grimwald attempts to tag her with a Guiding Bolt before she disappears, but she is able to escape to the back room and leave through a portal.
Aramil returns to consciousness, and the group investigates Valindra's lair. They find a man in a cage who they release, and after being healed by Flint he wakes up and introduces himself as Artus Cimber. He seems to be in a hurry to leave, but Tycerian persuades him to stay and answer their questions first. As Artus explains that he was looking for a lost lover in Mezro when he was attacked, Aramil recognizes him as the man the Avatar had told them about several weeks previously.
The group gathers from him that he also is trying to destroy Ris Nsi and bring Mezro back to the world, which is currently in the astral plane. He believes his wife in Mezro to still be alive, as she is an elf. Artus himself is a human, but has been granted long life due to the Ring of Winter he wears, and claims to be 322 years old. He confirms to the party that Ris Nsi is in Omu in an underground tomb built by him and his followers, and takes the form of a serpent-like monster. He notes that some have thought Ris Nsi and Isalawa to be one and the same, but since Isalawa takes a human form and Ris Nsi a monsterous one, it would take some powerful magic to change bodies in such a way. If he had changed form, it would have to have been sometime between Isalawa's banishment and Mezro's fall.
Valindra appears to be after a Soul Monger and interested in the god Acerarak, and a magic that can transmute artifacts. She described to Artus the gem as being a black gem with a purple swirl on the inside.
Since Artus' goals seem to align with the mission of the group, they decide to join forces in the journey to come.
